The following section includes a number of sample afflictions. Listed effects stack with the standard effects for the listed track, unless the effect specifies a different track, in which case it supersedes the regular track. If a disease or poison doesn’t specify an effect, it imposes the standard effects for the listed track.The individual lines of information in affliction stat blocks are described below. Those marked “Optional” appear only if relevant. Name: This lists the name of the affliction. Type: This shows the type of the affliction, such as a curse, disease, drug, or poison. Where applicable, this line also states in parentheses the means by which it is contracted, such as contact, ingestion, inhalation, or injury. Afflictions that have multiple methods of contraction indicate this here. A contact affliction is delivered by any contact with bare skin, which generally requires an attack against EAC if the intended target is unwilling. A contact affliction can also be injected like an injury affliction. Contact afflictions often take 1 minute or longer to take effect. An ingested affliction is delivered by tricking the intended target into eating or drinking it. Ingested afflictions often take 10 minutes or longer to take effect. An inhaled affliction is delivered the moment a creature that breathes (and isn’t wearing a space suit or suit of armor that filters out such toxins) enters an area containing such an affliction. Most inhaled afflictions fill a volume equal to a 10- foot cube per dose. A creature at risk can attempt to hold its breath while inside such an area to avoid inhaling the affliction. There is a 50% chance each round a creature holding its breath doesn’t need to attempt a saving throw against the affliction (see Suffocation and Drowning on page 404). An injury affliction is delivered through damage to the target, usually via a slashing or piercing kinetic attack dosed with the affliction. These afflictions often take effect immediately. Save: This indicates the type of saving throw necessary to avoid contracting the affliction, as well as its DC. Unless otherwise noted, this is also the saving throw to avoid the affliction’s effects once it is contracted. Addiction (Optional): Typically only applicable to drugs, this line lists the saving throw type and DC to avoid addiction. See page 418 in Diseases for more about how addiction works. Track: This line indicates the progression track used once a character is affected by the affliction. Onset (Optional): Some afflictions have a variable amount of time before they set in. Creatures that come into contact with an affliction with an onset time must attempt a saving throw immediately, and if they fail, they suffer the appropriate effect after the onset time has passed. The creature then must continue to attempt saving throws against the affliction’s effects as normal. Frequency: This is how often the periodic saving throw must be attempted after the affliction has been contracted. If the affliction lists an amount of time after its frequency—such as 1/minute for 6 minutes—that means its effects last for only that amount of time, regardless of whether the affected creature ever succeeds at a saving throw. Such an affliction cannot be cured via successful saving throws; after its duration ends, the victim remains at her current step on its progression track until she receives the benefit of remove affliction or a similar effect. Effect (Optional): This line lists the affliction’s special effects, if any, beyond the effects of its appropriate progression track. Cure (Optional): This indicates how the affliction is cured. Usually, this is number of consecutive, successful savingthrows. Even if an affliction has a limited frequency, it might be cured earlier if the affected creatures succeeds at enough saving throws. Afflictions without a cure entry can be cured only through spells such as remove affliction. Curses A curse’s Cure entry defines the actions needed to remove the curse. These actions might vary, at the GM’s discretion.Diseases The threat of disease persists despite medical advances.Poisons The prices for the common poisons listed below are found on page 232 in Chapter 7.