The following sample traps are listed by CR. Pit Trap (CR 1/2) A 10-foot-square trapdoor opens when a creature walks on top of it, dumping victims into a 20-foot-deep pit.Laser Blast Trap (CR 1) When sensors detect movement in the trapped room, a wall panel opens and a mounted laser rifle opens fire on the triggering creature.Jolting Console Trap (CR 3) When an unsuspecting creature touches the trapped console, the console sparks with electricity, shocking the triggering creature.Trash Compactor Trap (CR 5) This trap consists of several 5-foot-square trapdoors that open when a creature stands on one, dumping the victim down a 60-foot-long chute and into a 30-foot-by-30-foot trash compactor with a single locked exit in one corner. The room is filled with debris and the floor functions as difficult terrain. One round later on the trap’s initiative count, two of the walls of the room begin closing inward, reducing the width of the room by 10 feet each round (to 20 feet on the first round, and so on). On the first round, this deals 2d6 bludgeoning damage to all nonamorphous creatures in the room. The damage increases to 8d6 on the second round, and to 32d6 on the third round. On the fourth round, the trash compactor’s exit opens to release the compressed garbage. A creature can climb back up the slippery chute with a successful DC 32 Athletics check. The gears controlling the compression mechanism have EAC 14, KAC 20, hardness 20, and 69 Hit Points. Mind Spores Trap (CR 6) When sensors detect movement, a vent releases a spray of spores that affect the triggering creature’s mental processes.Hacker’s Curse Trap (CR 7) When an unauthorized user attempts to hack the trapped computer console, a magical curse script downloads into nearby technological items, which become cursehacked. A creature using a cursehacked item takes a –4 penalty to attack rolls (if it’s a weapon), AC (if it’s a suit of armor), skill checks (if it’s involved in attempting the skill check), and so on. The virus replicates in other technological items if they touch either a cursehacked item or a creature carrying or wearing one. This curse remains until removed by remove affliction or similar magic or by a successful Computers DC 35 check that takes 10 minutes for a single item.Explosive Detonation Trap (CR 9) When the trap detects a living creature within 5 feet, it explodes.Nanoflechette Launcher Trap (CR 11) When sensors detect movement in the trapped room, the doors seal and five wall apertures open on its initiative count to launch nanoflechettes at everyone in the room. The trap fires nanoflechettes for 10 rounds, unless all the apertures have been closed or destroyed. An aperture has EAC 23, KAC 27, Fort +14, Ref +11, hardness 10, and 40 Hit Points. Closing or destroying one aperture reduces the damage dealt by 1d12.Obedience Implant Trap (CR 12) When the trap sees a creature within 10 feet, a lancet implants a magic microchip in the triggering creature, which falls under the telepathic control of the trap’s creator, as per dominate person (but affecting any creature). Removing the chip safely requires a 1-minute surgical procedure and a successful Medicine DC 28 check. Failure deals 3d6 slashing damage and leaves the implant in place. An implanted chip prevents magical means of ending the spell effect. Any later successful save (such as to resist a command) renders the spell effect dormant for 1 round rather than ending it.Disintegration Chamber Trap (CR 14) When organic matter enters the trapped room, a disintegration beam permeates it 1 round later, atomizing everything within.Soul Upload Trap (CR 17) One minute after living creatures enter the trapped room, they are bombarded with energy that digitizes and removes their souls, leaving their bodies lifeless husks. The digitized souls are uploaded into data modules linked to the room’s computer system. Hacking the system via a successful Computers check can release trapped souls, but it usually has a wipe module—a failed attempt might purge the souls. Casting raise dead on an affected body requires a successful DC 32 caster level check or the spell fails.